On the island of jamaica...
wow! Look at this place?
Swashbuckler henry morgan's
Pirate fortune.
Has been lost to history.
I don't understand why
Nobody is looking here.
This is where
Captain morgan was from.
Now, we're diving to the depths
Of a sunken city...
Gold coin?
And snaking our way
Through the limestone bedrock...
My god, It just keeps going.
On a hightech treasure hunt...
Dude, I'm seeing
Tons of stuff here.
To uncover the infamous
Morgan's millions...
Right there, right there.
"X" marks the spot.
Buried deep below
The earth's surface,
There are countless
Unsolved mysteries.
And today, we finally have
The tools to unlock them.
That's amazing.
It's super deep!
I'm rob nelson,
A scientist and explorer.
Investigating
Our planet's hidden depths.
- Getting deeper.
- Holy moly, stefan.
And helping me uncover
These subterranean secrets.
Is tech specialist stefan burns.
My god. Look at that!
Together...
I got something!
We are uncovering
New leads in our quest.
To solve earth's
Most enduring mysteries.
- There we go.
- Whoo!
These are the secrets
Of the underground.
Captions by vitac...
www.Vitac.Com.
Captions paid for by
Discovery communications
Jamaica,
Land of turquoise waters.
And softsand beaches.
Stefan and I have come
To this tropical paradise.
In search of the vast riches.
Of one of the most
Infamous pirates of all time,
Henry morgan.
Captain morgan was
A welshborn mariner.
Who made a fortune raiding
Ships and settlements.
In the new world
In the late 17th century.
Starting in 1663,
Morgan led insurgent campaigns.
Against the world's mightiest
Military force at the time...
Spain.
The daring captain would attack
And plunder spanish colonies.
Throughout the caribbean.
And the americas,
Taking as many gold coins,
Silver bullion,
And precious gems
As he could find.
By the time of
His death in 1688,
He had captured a fortune worth
Millions in today's dollars.
Wow, Look at this place?
Can you imagine this place
Full of pirates?
While some of morgan's loot
Has been accounted for,
It's rumored that he made off
With untold riches.
After one of the most daring and
Successful raids of his career.
On panama city,
A wealthy enclave
On the spanish main.
In 2008, archeologists
Located a shipwreck.
Near the mouth
Of the chagres river,
The only waterway
That led to morgan's target.
The vessel was suspected to be
Morgan's flagship, satisfaction.
But, while there were
Cannons and chests,
The priceless spanish gold and
Silver was nowhere to be found.
Look at this huge cannon.
Wow!
You would not want to
Be on the receiving end.
Of one of these guys.
No, you would not.
This would spell
Destruction for sure.
So, we've come to jamaica,
The island morgan
Called home for decades,
In search of clues
That could lead us.
To the captain's rumored
Missing fortune.
What I don't understand
Is why nobody is looking here.
I mean, this is where
Captain morgan was from.
This is where He set up shop.
This is where all
The pirates were.
This seems The logical place.
Morgan's base of operations.
Was the once thriving city
Of port royal,
Then known as
"The wickedest place on earth."
Now a sleepy fishing village
Across the harbor from kingston,
300 years ago,
This fortified spit of land.
Was the place to be
For the pirates.
Operating in the caribbean.
After successful raids, pirates
Would descend on the city,
Eager to spend their loot,
Mostly on booze and women.
I don't know about you,
I've always, as a kid,
Really wanted to find
Pirate treasure.
I'm pretty sure every kid
Has always wanted.
To find pirate treasure.
With your geophysical Technology.
And the access that we have,
I think there's
A really good chance.
That we might actually
Find something.
So we head just offshore.
To the site we think holds
The most promise of loot...
The sunken portion
Of port royal.
So right now,
Just under the water,
We know there's basically
Part of port royal.
Just before noon
On june 7, 1692,
A catastrophic series
Of events struck this spot.
A 7.5 magnitude earthquake
Rocked the city,
Followed closely
By a giant tsunami.
And in a matter of moments,
2/3 of port royal sunk
40 feet into the sea,
Shops and taverns.
And all of their gold
And silver suddenly gone.
Could any of that still lie
Below the water.
In the sunken city?
Somebody did
Find gold here recently.
And that
They weren't using tech,
They just found it On the beach.
Using the tech that we have,
If we're lucky, we could scan.
Right over the top
Of some pirate treasure.
Overall, less than 10%
Of the underwater city.
Has been excavated,
Leaving more than 90% untouched
And ripe for exploration.
We've managed to secure access
To the site.
From the jamaican government,
A rare feat.
We'll be one of only a handful
Of teams to ever dive here.
All right, so we have
The sidescan sonar here.
Sweet!
We'll drop the sonar
Off the side of the boat.
It will scan the surface below.
And help us map
The remnants of port royal.
Stefan will be able to use
This information to direct me.
Through an inmask comm system.
To spots that seem promising
To look for loot.
And I'll be able to do
My own scan of the seafloor.
This is my metal detector,
Fully waterproof.
Yeah, down to, Like, 90 feet,
Way more than
You'll be diving today.
That's awesome.
This will be able to detect
Any gold or silver.
Hidden in the ruins.
I'm guessing nobody's brought
A metal detector.
Down where We're going to go.
No, I mean,
These are not common.
To have a fully waterproof to,
Like, 90 feet metal detector,
Yeah, this is
Pretty cutting edge.
You find out where we need to go
With the sidescan.
I'll scan... Okay.
And then I'll talk back
To you with the comm system.
Yeah, I think it's going to be
A pretty good setup.
Let's do this.
Sonar is going in.
It's in.
All right, I'm recording.
All right, I'm going
To get suited up.
As I get ready to dive,
Port royal is
Materializing before us.
I'm seeing structures
That look like foundations.
It's very symmetrical...
One, two, three,
Four blocks in a row.
So this is super cool.
We can see hints of
Port royal's 2,000 buildings,
What once were densely packed
Brick and timber structures,
Some as tall as four stories.
All told, before
The earthquake hit,
Port royal stretched
Over 51 acres,
With 7,000 people living
Within its tight confines.
All right, here we go.
How many feet of
Visibility do you have?
That's not good.
Okay, but we'll work with that.
What I can clearly see
Is a thick layer of silt.
And seagrass covering
This sunken city.
As I explore, I see hints
Of rubble, which makes sense.
Given the violent destruction
Of port royal.
Based on eyewitness accounts,
We have a sense.
Of the last terrifying moments.
Of this entombed city.
When the earthquake struck,
The sandy ground.
Port royal was built on.
Vibrated so intensely
That it essentially liquefied.
The resulting quicksandlike
Sludge swallowed houses.
And their occupants whole.
Experts today believe that some
Of the remains of those.
Who perished are still sealed up
In the submerged buildings,
Making the city
Kind of a pirateera pompeii.
Whoa! What?
My goodness!
Have our hightech tools
Uncovered a new clue in the hunt.
For morgan's missing millions?
And later, we follow
Our treasure map.
Into the limestone depths.
Of the lush
Jamaican countryside.
This is, like, a little crack
And all of a sudden.
This huge cave opens up.
Perfect place for a pirate
To hide gold.
Stefan and I
Are in jamaica on the hunt.
For privateer henry morgan's
Lost treasure.
And I've just picked up
Something metallic.
In the sunken pirate city
Of port royal.
That could be our gold, rob.
And if you let a sea urchin
Stop us from finding that...
Okay.
Be careful.
Over the centuries, the sea
Has reclaimed these ruins.
Everything is covered
In a thick layer of sediment,
And in some spots, seagrass.
As I tried to dig, I can't help
But kick up a cloud of silt,
Making it hard to see what,
If anything, I'm uncovering.
Since the 1950s,
Archeologists have excavated
Assorted artifacts,
Like chinese porcelain
And glass bottles.
From the roughly 10% of the city
They've uncovered.
All of these objects helped
Paint a picture of port royal.
As a thriving trading hub
That attracted mariners.
And merchants
From around the globe.
But, there is a lot left
To be discovered here,
Perhaps even morgan's
Secret stash.
What did you find?
Like a gold coin?
Certainly not part of
Henry morgan's treasure.
But, I'm beginning to see
Evidence that suggests
I'm on top of a key part
Of port royal.
What's interesting?
Did you find lime street?
If you found lime street,
That's huge.
Thanks to historical records,
We know that lime street
Was one of old.
Port royal's most
Notable thoroughfares.
Merchants likely lived along
At least part of the street.
And quite often were the ones.
Holding the largest amount
Of valuable goods,
Since they were the conduits.
For getting that material
Back to england.
So if there were hidden riches,
There's a good shot
They'd be here.
I continued to trace
The road with stefan.
Guiding me from above.
Until I get closer To the shore.
But, I haven't picked up
Any gold or silver.
With my metal detector yet,
And while a pass
Across the larger area.
Is undoubtedly turning up
Some interesting finds...
There are still no signs
Of henry morgan's millions.
So I circled back to what
I think is our best lead.
For finding the loot...
Lime street.
If we could follow lime street
All the way to shore,
That'd be fantastic.
Not all of lime street
Was swallowed up by the sea.
Part of it lived on
In the small portion.
Of the city that didn't sink.
So maybe the treasure
We're after is actually.
Lurking below the land,
Possibly along this
Main thoroughfare.
Welcome!
My gosh, That was so cool.
We make our way back to shore.
And towards the dry part
Of lime street,
Which runs straight into
A dusty soccer field.
While it's pretty quiet today,
In 1692, This area of port royal.
Would have been
Teeming with life,
Filled with houses and shops.
That contained
Countless valuables.
It didn't all vanish
Into thin air.
When the earthquake struck.
In fact, much of what was here
Was reduced to rubble.
And over the centuries,
That rubble was covered.
By encroaching sand
And dirt and life.
So what lies Below our feet now?
It seems likely something
Is down there.
Lime street runs through here,
Roughly this direction.
It's going to be A lot of work.
I mean, this is a huge area.
Yeah.
Give you this stuff.
We've brought along
Groundpenetrating radar.
To create a 3d map Of the area.
This will allow us to locate
Lime street,
Pick up buildings,
And find gold or silver loot
That's buried here.
Good luck. All right.
While stefan gets to work,
I'm going to check out
Some of the treasure.
That did make it back from
Henry morgan's most famous raid.
And now lives at
The local anglican church.
Could these valuable artifacts
Give us a clue.
As to what might be missing.
Or where the unaccounted
Loot ended up?
Good afternoon, how are you?
How are you doing?
Althea gordon is a church
Committee member here.
At st. Peter's.
Here we have the silver.
All of this was stolen
From the church.
Of the golden altar In panama.
Wait, so these...
So henry morgan
And the pirates stole it.
Is it okay for me
To touch these?
Yes, you can.
Wow, this is incredible.
Beautiful silver...
Originally brought here.
From panama.
And I believe you don't have
Silver like that again.
Well, I've never seen
Anything quite like this.
While this church was built
After the 1692 earthquake,
These relics were given
To the anglican church.
In port royal sometime earlier,
Reportedly by
Henry morgan himself.
The heft, the craftsmanship,
The quality...
Just imagine if
There's more of this.
Buried out On the soccer field.
It is beautiful.
So you still use this today?
Yes, we do.
But there's one piece
That serves no holy purpose.
This was henry morgan's
Wine jug.
No kidding!
Yes, when he wanted wine, he
Would blow on the whistle there.
That's a large wine jug. Yes.
That's enough wine every night
To put you to sleep.
Henry morgan was no saint and
Was known to be a heavy drinker,
Which would make him
Right at home in port royal.
When the earthquake
Struck in 1692,
Many believed it
Was an act of god.
Meant to destroy A wicked city.
Where money was worshipped
Above all else,
And man had lost his way
Among the booze, bars,
And brothels.
Althea tells me there's even
A local legend of a church.
That sunk to the bottom
Of the sea in the catastrophe,
Completely intact,
And full of gold.
Church went down intact.
Because it is
The people on the land.
That were evil, Not the church.
They say you could hear
The bell ringing.
Or on a very clear morning,
You could go there and look.
But it's under the water.
I used to have a granna
That said,
"The gold under the water
Is for port royal people,
But the righteous generation."
So anything that god put down
Is to stay down,
But it will come up for those
Who he thinks are worthy.
That's a pretty
High bar to reach.
And I didn't see
Any evidence of a church.
Full of gold While on my dive.
But still, legend is
Often rooted in fact,
So the idea that there could be
Some treasure somewhere.
In port royal.
Just seems more
And more possible.
I'm very curious to see how
Stefan's doing with his scan.
God, it is so hot.
While I've been in the relative
Cool of the church,
He's been hard at work
Getting an initial peek.
Beneath the soccer field.
I'm pretty sure I've seen
Lime street here on the gpr.
Just a matter
Of modeling it now.
Maybe even Building foundations.
It's hard to tell.
But there's a lot of stuff
Underground here.
Stefan! Hey!
You getting anything?
I did.
I think I found evidence
Of lime street.
Or at least some street
From the old port royal times.
No kidding.
But stefan also found
Something more unexpected.
And potentially Groundbreaking.
What really intrigued me
Was I was running.
Over specifically this area,
Kind of near this pile,
I found a large metallic object
At about 6 feet down.
There's something here.
What has stefan unearthed from
Port royal's mysterious past?
Right here.
"X" marks the spot.
We're going to get a closer
Look at this promising patch.
I mean, I don't want to
Jump ahead of myself,
But it could be
A treasure chest.
Underground tech expert
Stefan burns and I.
Are in jamaica,
On the hunt for pirate
Henry morgan's lost treasure.
And stefan thinks
He may have found.
A metallic object
6 feet underground,
Along a buried portion
Of lime street,
A main road in old port royal.
I found a large Metallic object.
Kind of near this pile,
At about 6 feet down.
So how big was it?
It was actually about
The size of this pile.
No way!
But I know It's not this pile.
Because the center
Is roughly over here.
We'll have to measure it out.
And I didn't see anything
Above it for 6 feet,
So it was completely
Blank for 6 feet...
And then all of a sudden,
Boom, there it was.
Right here.
I think that's basically
The center of this.
You just created yourself
A treasure map.
"X" marks the spot.
We're going to take another pass
Over this smaller area.
With the gpr
To get a closer look.
At what's going on below us.
All right, you want me
To just do the first pass?
You do as much
As you want to do.
All right, why don't you
Set it up, I'll run it.
I know you're Kind of delicate,
So if the sun is
A little too hot for you,
You can go sit In the shade.
All right, cool?
This will be the last pass.
Once we complete our scans,
Stefan can create
One of the firstever
3d maps of this section
Of this forgotten street.
Let me go ahead
And create the 3d here.
Holy moly!
It's definitely
Something right there.
Look at that!
There's a clear picture
Emerging,
Thanks to the gpr.
It does look like
We've found lime street,
Since we can trace it from
The sunken portion of the city.
Up onto dry land
To the area we just mapped.
We can see the foundations
Of the buildings,
Even an intersection
With another road.
Perhaps most intriguing,
That metallic object,
Which measures
About 6 by 8 feet,
Appears to lie
Inside a structure.
I mean, I don't want to
Jump ahead of myself,
But it could be
A treasure chest.
Yeah. You know what I mean?
We can't rule it out.
Perhaps this chest
Or safe was buried.
Beneath the floorboards
Of a house,
A tavern, or even
A merchant storehouse.
And when the 1692 earthquake
Turned port royal into rubble,
It was lost to history,
Until now.
This is amazing!
We'll file a request
With the government.
For a permit to dig here,
And in the meantime,
Look for other clues.
As to where henry morgan's
Treasure may be hidden.
It seems possible he would have
Had multiple hiding spots,
And perhaps one of them
Was farther.
From the masses Of port royal.
And closer to where morgan
May have called home.
So stefan and I pack up
And head to the jamaica archives.
In spanish town.
It houses the island's
Old records,
All the way back
To the pirate heyday.
If we can find evidence
Of property morgan owned,
It could help us determine
Where to turn next.
All right, this is what
We're looking for here.
Let me have One of those gloves.
So this here shows his patent,
Essentially, his block of land.
While it may seem odd
That a highseas criminal.
Would leave his mark
In the official record books.
Of the provincial government,
Henry morgan wasn't entirely the
Scallywag some assume he was.
It turns out, his piracy
Was mostly legitimate.
And in service
To the english crown.
Facing a dominant spanish armada
In the 17th century,
Britain turned to
Independent sea captains.
To protect its interests
In the caribbean.
It was a means of military
Outsourcing...
Grant private vessels
The right to raid enemy ships.
And keep a portion
Of the captured plunder.
The rest of the profit would go
Into the government coffers,
So britain could raise funds,
Protect its own trade routes,
And destroy its most
Potent adversary,
All without having to risk
Its own limited resources.
Aside from his attack
On panama city in 1670,
Henry morgan launched
Numerous raids.
On nearby spanishheld cuba.
And other panamanian ports
In the 1660s.
Each action helped strike a blow
To spain's power in the region.
And enrich all parties involved.
With all his success,
Morgan became one of the crown's
Preferred privateers,
And in november 1673, In london,
King charles ii
Officially hailed morgan.
As a hero,
Knighting the sea captain,
And appointing him the new
Lieutenant governor of jamaica.
The onetime pirate
Returned to the island.
Even more legitimate
Than when he left,
As sir henry morgan,
And he turned from
Privateering to planting,
Quickly becoming a member
Of the landed elite.
I'm just thinking if we're
Looking for treasure,
We should be looking where
Sir henry morgan's estate was.
One of his more remote holdings.
Lies on the other side
Of the island,
At the top of a large hill,
Perfect for a lookout
And perhaps a hiding place.
Further research suggests
An intriguing rumor.
About this estate,
Now called firefly.
For years, people have said
That a tunnel exists.
Beneath this plot of land,
Intended as an escape route
For henry morgan himself,
Should the spanish or any
Other old enemy decide.
To take revenge or come
In search of his riches.
The passageway supposedly
Runs from his house.
Down to a nearby port.
If true, this opening would also
Be a perfect place.
To squirrel away treasure.
This will lead us in
The right direction, I think.
All right, let's do it.
As stefan and I head
North from kingston,
Are we closing in
On henry morgan's.
Mighty stash of pirate loot?
My god! What do you see?
This keeps going
Right towards the house.
Stefan and I Are heading north.
To privateer henry morgan's
Vast estate...
Firefly.
We've heard whisperings
Of an underground tunnel system.
Beneath the grounds,
A seemingly ideal spot to stash
His missing millions.
In gold and silver
Pirate plunder.
Situated on the northern coast,
Firefly is perhaps best known.
As the jamaican home
Of british actor.
And playwright, noel coward.
Coward often hosted
Famous friends.
Like winston churchill
And elizabeth taylor.
At his hilltop retreat.
But before it was a playground
For the rich and famous,
It provided solitude and
Safety to henry morgan.
And walking up, it isn't
Hard to understand.
Why he may have been
Drawn to this spot.
Over 60 miles From port royal.
Holy moly!
Look at this!
This is incredible.
And if you were a pirate, this
Would be the perfect lookout.
Yeah, this is Prime real estate.
I can see why captain morgan
Just snatched this up.
And put this hideout here.
I mean, you can probably
See 15 miles.
It would be really
Difficult to get up here.
There would be no risk of
Getting hit by cannonballs.
Morgan could have seen
Anyone approaching from the sea.
And a landbased attack
Through the dense forest.
Would have been
Nearly impossible.
These are perfect conditions if
You're looking for a safe spot.
To hide a stash,
And not just because
Of the view.
I think there's a high
Likelihood of their being.
A cave or tunnel system,
Just based off the fact
That, like, right there,
That's limestone At the surface.
Yeah, there's
Limestone all over.
That stuff Loves to dissolve.
And create the elaborate,
Intricate,
Like, cave networks And caverns.
And he could have
Easily repurposed.
Some of those into a tunnel.
And if he had the tunnels, it
Would be perfect to hide loot.
Let's first see if
There's anybody here.
That we can talk to.
Hello!
- Hey!
- Hi, there!
- Welcome to firefly, man.
Victor taylor is the caretaker
Here at the estate.
If anyone can clue us into the
History of this place,
It's him.
Welcome, this is the old
16th century building,
Used to be the pirate lookout.
Whoa!
It's been updated
Slightly over the centuries,
But this structure dates back
To henry morgan's time.
Wow!
Okay, notice the thickness
Of the walls.
This is original? Original.
Was this captain morgan's...?
That's one of his swords.
The bayonet, yes.
These are cannonballs, here?
Yes, cannonballs.
Can I grab one?
Grab one, no problem.
My god!
Imagine that thing
Lobbing at you.
My go... holy crud, That's heavy!
Yeah.
I didn't expect it
To be that heavy.
These aren't the only hints.
Of the property's Violent past.
That's, like, a human jaw
Right there.
Yep, that's it.
That's creepy.
I was expecting...
Well, I was not expecting
To see a human skull.
Where did you find the skull?
On the property.
Wow.
I mean, How creepy is this?
Bones and bayonets,
But how about gold and silver?
Stefan and I are here because
We're trying to follow.
The path of morgan's treasure.
And I've heard there are
Tunnel systems here.
And this was his old estate.
I'm curious if you know
Anything about that.
No, I don't know nothing
Much about the treasure.
I've been looking for years
And I don't find any.
But he has heard rumors
Of tunnels leading to the ocean.
And he knows of a deep hole in
The brush right near the house,
Which could be the beginning
Of a subterranean opening.
It's just out The side there.
Yeah, let's check it out.
Look at all This limestone?
Yeah, victor, this is
All bedrock right here?
Yes, all limestone.
Look at, you can see...
Look at that.
It's all weathered out.
Doesn't look like it takes much
To dissolve away this rock.
No. Not at all.
Looks promising.
The hole is almost entirely
Hidden in a tangle of ferns.
You can see it.
I don't see an opening.
There's something.
Here, I got a light...
Have you ever been in here?
You've never been in?
Do you know anybody
Who's ever been in there?
Stefan is eager to jump in
And use his welltrained eye.
To evaluate
Whatever lurks below.
My god!
Does it keep going?
What do you see?
Yeah, this keeps going
Right towards the house.
It looks like
It's been filled in.
Really?
It goes in about 10 feet, kind
Of at an angle like this,
Right, and then just looks like
It's been filled in.
There's some trash back here.
Just over the years
Filled it in.
But crawling in here's not going
To accomplish anything.
But I think running the gpr and
Following this will do a lot.
A gpr scan of the property
Will bring to light.
Tunnels or openings.
That may be lurking beneath
The manicured grounds,
Natural or manmade.
While stefan gets
Going with the gpr,
I'm going to take a sweep
With a tool called a schonstedt,
A type of
Magneticfield detector.
That means it will pick up
Any disturbances.
In the natural magnetic field
Of the earth,
Which would indicate a large
Metal object buried below.
Within minutes, stefan
Starts seeing something.
That was something.
Hey, rob!
Yeah?
Dude, I'm seeing tons
Of stuff up here!
Will our cuttingedge map.
Turn up any new clues
In the hunt.
For henry morgan's
Hidden treasure?
I'm with underground tech expert
Stefan burns in jamaica,
Peering beneath the surface
Of pirate henry morgan's.
Onetime estate.
We're on the hunt
For his lost treasure.
And it looks like we may have
Just found a clue.
Dude, I'm seeing
Tons of stuff up here.
What've you got?
So, I wasn't even
Scanning that long.
Look at this.
You can see them scattered
All throughout this image.
That's the one
I just rolled over.
I saw another one on
The other side of that rock,
Right about here.
And you put them in a line,
It's trending this direction.
Well, it's heading right
To morgan's hideout.
Right over there.
Stefan has just revealed
An opening beneath the lawn,
Part of a possible passageway
That runs below us.
But could this tunnel connect
With a larger system,
One that could potentially
Lead from the shore.
All the way up to the estate?
That's what's long
Been rumored...
That henry morgan could get
To his lookout from the harbor.
Below using A secret passageway.
And if such a network
Or cavern does exist,
Could it hold any of morgan's
Pilfered gold and silver?
Victor, the caretaker, suggests
We talk to a neighbor,
Who may have a new lead
On another part of this.
Supposed system.
Are you the guy that knows
About the tunnels?
Yeah, man.
Tabai has worked on
The property for years.
And is intimately acquainted
With its nooks and crannies.
The rumor is that
There are tunnels.
That go from henry morgan's
Estate out to the ocean.
Yeah, man.
And do we know where
Those tunnel systems are?
Yeah, man. Yeah, man.
Could you take us over there?
Yeah, man, no problem.
From what he's seen,
He thinks it's more of a cave.
But he can take us
To the entrance.
So that we can explore further.
This is an unexpected
Breakthrough.
This is the entrance
To the cave?
Yeah, man.
It's little more than
A crack in the rock.
And until we get it in there,
I'll have no idea how
Far the opening goes.
All right.
Time to get skinny.
I got stuck in a cave
Like this, this summer.
It's probably fine.
I think you're good. Yeah.
You know the good news is
There's no venomous snakes.
I heard there's lots
Of cave scorpions, though.
Okay.
Here, take mine, too, and then
I'm going squeeze in there.
Come on down.
All right.
See you on the other side.
My god.
It just keeps going.
Almost immediately,
The cave begins to open up.
This is, like, a little crack
And you just crawl through,
All of a sudden,
This huge cave opens up.
All right, well, let's head down
A little bit further,
See if we can follow
This thing to the exit.
Yeah, we need to see
Where this goes.
Okay.
I think it's right down here.
Okay, I'm going down.
All right, stefan, as you're
Coming down, just be careful,
'cause there is a big dropoff.
Right on the other side
Of your foot there.
Yep.
It just keeps going.
Okay.
You know, if you look around,
You can see little tiny
Entrances all over the place.
There's one over there.
There's one over this way.
Because of the nature
Of the limestone rock,
There are opening
And small caverns.
Scattered all over the place.
There's a giant hole Right here.
Like, if you were going
To hide any treasure...
You're going
To try to stick this in here.
Okay.
And there's some giant
Mole crickets in there.
No gold.
There's clearly other
Cracks and crevasses...
Really? ...That can be explored.
I mean, each one of these
Little cracks here.
Branches into 10 new ones.
Well, this is
Absolutely fascinating.
Given their Geological features,
It's easy to see why caves
Have been synonymous.
With hidden treasures
Throughout history.
In fact, they're believed
To hold some of.
The most spectacular
Collections of riches.
The caves of central asia's
Hindu kush mountains.
Reportedly housed the fortunes.
Of an 18th century
Persian invader,
A colossal cache.
Estimated to be worth
Half a trillion dollars.
In india, the bizarrelooking
Son bhandar stone chambers.
Are said to hide
A secret passage.
That leads to the royal
Treasures of an ancient king.
But while these riches
Have yet to be found,
A stunning discovery was made.
In a northern israeli cave
In 2015,
A rare collection
Of jewelry and coins.
That date back 2,300 years.
To the reign
Of alexander the great.
As we explore this cave,
It's also clear
That we are not alone.
Sounds like you're not
A fan of the bat.
No, I don't mind bats,
I just don't want them
Flying in my face.
All right, let's keep moving,
Stefan.
I don't know if henry morgan hid
Any of his gold down here,
But if you were wanting
A place to hide stuff,
This would be
A good place for it.
If we could find a connection
From here to his hideout,
Or even just a new tunnel
System, I mean, we're golden.
We just need to look for it.
I mean, it's clear there's lots
Of tunnels under these rocks.
I mean, there's probably
Hundreds and hundreds of tunnels.
That have yet to be
Exposed to the surface.
We might need to bust out
The technology.
To help us map This cave pool.
And all these cracks
And crevasses.
That's what we're all about.
Stefan has brought along
A handheld lidar device.
For just this purpose.
It will create threedimensional
Renderings of the cave.
That can be analyzed
With precision.
So we'll be able to locate
Any possible connection points.
To other tunnels that
May run up to morgan's.
Lookout or down
To the harbor below.
I'm also going to grab
The metal detector.
So we can do
A sweep of the cave.
This is a limestone cave so if
There was any metal down here,
Any loot, it was unfound,
He would pick it up.
We have a good game plan.
All right, I'll let you
Start scanning,
I'll go grab The metal detector.
Cool.
Crawl my way out.
Let's rock and roll.
Wow...
Are we about to break
New ground in the hunt.
For henry morgan's
Missing pirate loot?
Right there, right there.
Stefan and I are
Exploring a cave.
On the grounds of pirate
Henry morgan's old hideaway,
And stefan has just finished
Doing a lidar scan.
Of the interior.
Hey! You get anything?
It needs to be processed.
You got the metal detector.
Yep.
Stefan starts the
Lidar processing.
While I begin
My scan of the cave.
If henry morgan buried
Any treasure in there,
This hightech tool
Should bring it to light.
I start at one end and move
My way towards the other.
When suddenly...
yeah, buddy!
Right here.
That's a good signal.
Right there, right there.
You found it? This is weird.
What is it?
Is that an old buckle
Or something?
No.
Where's your light?
Doesn't that look like The hinge.
On a treasure chest
Or something?
Know what this is,
Is an old saw.
This is where the handle
Affixed to it, like that.
We have one more section
To sweep.
Something right there.
We've scanned The whole cave.
God, it's really deep.
Almost like we need a shovel.
Imagine if we found
A gold coin right now.
Trust me, I'm imagining it.
Let me scan one more time
Just to make sure.
It's in this pile.
Maybe it's a coin.
Could be and I could have
Scooped something up.
It's in there somewhere.
Stefan keeps digging, until...
Hey, I found it!
What is it?
It's a metal cap Or something.
Looks like a shotgun shell.
Crud! Look at that.
I thought we had our coin.
It's over 100 years old.
It's got to be.
And if this dates back To 1900,
People have had this idea
For a long time.
I mean, we went down over a foot
To find this thing,
Which means that
If there was gold here,
It could be even
Deeper than that.
Yeah.
Let's see what the 3d
Lidar map has turned up.
The rendering is remarkable
In its detail.
Dozens of small crevasses
And passages line the walls,
Making this cave a perfect
Spot to stash pirate loot.
But even more telling is this
Cave's shape and orientation.
Stretching some 30 feet inward,
It's positioned in line.
With both henry morgan's
Old lookout.
And the harbor.
Taken with the evidence
Of tunnels we found.
On the top of the hill,
Could we have finally
Unearthed proof.
Of a long lost pirate
Escape tunnel,
One that could have
Given henry morgan.
Direct access to the beach.
Or a place to store
His missing loot?
It seems increasingly likely.
Whoa! Made it!
I would say almost guaranteed
There's gold down here.
Yeah. And we're getting closer
And closer to finding it.
We've made enormous progress
In our search.
For captain morgan's treasure,
From discovering
Possible tunnels.
To locating a suspicious
Metallic object.
Along wealthy lime street
In port royal,
An intriguing glimmer
Of pirateera antiquities.
We're going to file for permits
To dig in these suspicious spots.
With the hope that finally
We will unearth
Henry morgan's Missing millions.